docs: define beta support matrix (#2148)
NVIDIA/OpenShell: docs/reference/support-matrix.mdx

manage a local gateway or connect to a remote gateway. This matrix lists the
supported platforms, runtimes, GPU environments, and client toolchains.

## Platforms

OpenShell can be installed and run on macOS, Linux, or Windows using standard
package installers. The [Installation guide](/about/installation) provides
setup instructions.

| Platform                | Installation methods | Requirements                                 |
| ----------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| macOS (Apple Silicon)   | Homebrew             | macOS 13.3 or later                          |
| Linux (x86_64, arm64)   | APT/DEB, RPM, Snap   | glibc 2.28 or later                          |
| Windows (x86_64, arm64) | MSI, WinGet          | Windows minimum version: TBD; MSVC toolchain |

## Compute Drivers

| Driver     | Supported hosts       | Minimum version                            | Requirements                                                                          |
| ---------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | Docker     | macOS, Linux, Windows | 28.0.4 or later                            | Docker Engine or Docker Desktop.                                                      |

Reviewer: Did we need to distinguish between "Windows" and "WSL"?

Author: Seems like we prefer Windows, https://github.com/NVIDIA/OpenShell/pull/2071#discussion_r3501906172.

| Podman     | macOS, Linux, Windows | 5.x                                        | Podman socket, rootless networking, and cgroups v2.                                   |
| MicroVM    | macOS, Linux          | macOS 13.3 or later; KVM support on Linux  | Host virtualization enabled; `Hypervisor.framework` on macOS; KVM on Linux.           |
| Kubernetes | Kubernetes clusters   | 1.29 or later                              | See [Kubernetes](#kubernetes) for Helm, Agent Sandbox, and distribution requirements. |

## GPU Support

OpenShell supports NVIDIA GPU-backed sandboxes across compute drivers when the

> host or cluster exposes compatible devices. Any LTS CUDA release is supported,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
host or cluster exposes compatible devices through a supported mechanism. Any current CUDA driver is supported,
```
I don't want to get into the details here, but basically, we require that the host is configured with the GPU Driver AND the NVIDIA Container Toolkit or in the case of Kubernets, the GPU Device Plugin.

with release validation focused on Tesla Recommended Driver (TRD) branches.
GPU-capable sandbox images provide the CUDA user-space libraries required by
the workload.

| Compute driver | Supported environment       | Device interface          | Requirements and limits                                                                                                              |
| -------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Docker         | Linux; Windows through WSL2 | NVIDIA CDI                | Docker CDI is enabled and NVIDIA devices are visible. Default and counted GPU requests are supported. WSL2 may expose all GPUs as one selectable device. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Docker         | Linux; Windows through WSL2 | NVIDIA CDI                | Docker is CDI-enabled and NVIDIA devices are visible. Default and counted GPU requests are supported. WSL2 may expose all GPUs as one selectable device. |
```

| Podman         | Linux; Windows through WSL2 | NVIDIA CDI                | NVIDIA CDI devices are visible to Podman. Default and counted GPU requests are supported. WSL2 may expose all GPUs as one selectable device.             |
| MicroVM        | Linux                       | QEMU/VFIO PCI passthrough | The host provides IOMMU and VFIO support, root privileges, and a compatible sandbox image. Each sandbox supports one GPU.                           |

> | Kubernetes     | Linux GPU nodes             | `nvidia.com/gpu`          | The NVIDIA device plugin or GPU Operator exposes allocatable GPU capacity, and the sandbox image includes the required user-space libraries.          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Kubernetes     | Linux GPU nodes             | `nvidia.com/gpu` extended resources | The NVIDIA GPU Device Plugin (e.g. installed by the GPU Operator) exposes allocatable GPU capacity, and the sandbox image includes the required user-space libraries.          |
```

# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025-2026 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
# SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
title: "Support Matrix"
description: "Review OpenShell compatibility across host platforms, Kubernetes environments, and SDKs."
position: 5
---
OpenShell can run sandboxes on a local macOS, Linux, or Windows machine or as
a distributed deployment on Kubernetes. The OpenShell CLI, TUI, and SDKs can
manage a local gateway or connect to a remote gateway. This matrix lists the
supported platforms, runtimes, and client toolchains.

## Platforms

OpenShell can be installed and run on macOS, Linux, or Windows using standard
package installers. The [Installation guide](/about/installation) provides
setup instructions.

> | Platform                | Installation methods | Versions                                     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Platform                | Installation methods | Requirements                                     |
```

| ----------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| macOS (Apple Silicon)   | Homebrew             | macOS 13.3 or later                          |
| Linux (x86_64, arm64)   | APT/DEB, RPM, Snap   | glibc 2.28 or later                          |
| Windows (x86_64, arm64) | MSI, WinGet          | Windows minimum version: TBD; MSVC toolchain |

The OpenShell client includes the CLI and TUI. Client binaries are built with
musl and are supported on macOS, Linux, and Windows. The client can be

> downloaded and run without a local gateway or package manager.

Reviewer 2: > The client can be downloaded and run without a local gateway or package manager.

This is not presently the behavior of the packagers though, right? They want to install and run a local gateway. Maybe this line could be moved to the top of this section, describing that the package installers also start and run a local gateway, but you can also download the standalone binary instead.

Author: Addressed in 87b4d69a. Added the CLI and TUI Clients section before SDKs. It now distinguishes package installers that start a local gateway from standalone binaries that connect to a remote gateway without running a local gateway.

| Podman     | macOS, Linux, Windows | 5.x                                        | Podman socket, rootless networking, and cgroups v2.                                   |
| MicroVM    | macOS, Linux          | macOS 13.3 or later; KVM support on Linux  | Host virtualization enabled; `Hypervisor.framework` on macOS; KVM on Linux.           |
| Kubernetes | Kubernetes clusters   | 1.29 or later                              | See [Kubernetes](#kubernetes) for Helm, Agent Sandbox, and distribution requirements. |

## Supervisor Kernel Requirements

These requirements apply to the Linux environment running the supervisor. On
macOS and Windows, they apply to the container or virtual machine kernel, not
the host kernel.

| Kernel capability                      | Requirement | Minimum | Behavior when unavailable                                                      |
| -------------------------------------- | ----------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| seccomp BPF                            | Required    | 3.17    | Supervisor security initialization fails.                                      |

> | Network namespaces, veth, and nftables | Required    | 3.13    | Network policy enforcement cannot start.                                       |

Reviewer 2: > Network policy enforcement cannot start.

Does this mean the supervisor/sandbox can't start, or just that some policy features are unavailable?

> | Network namespaces, veth, and nftables | Required    | Linux 3.13 or later | Network policy enforcement cannot start.                                       |

Reviewer 2: > Network policy enforcement cannot start.

Does this mean that the supervisor fails to start, meaning the sandbox cannot start, or will the sandbox start and some features be unavailable?

Author: Addressed in 87b4d69a. Split network namespaces and veth from nftables. Namespace setup failure now explicitly means supervisor initialization fails and the sandbox never becomes ready; nftables failure is documented separately as non-fatal degraded bypass detection with an OCSF configuration event.

| Landlock LSM                           | Recommended | 5.13    | `best_effort` runs degraded with a security finding; `hard_requirement` fails. |

> | cgroups v2 PID controller              | Recommended | 4.5     | The compute driver or container runtime must provide PID limits.               |

Reviewer 2: > The compute driver or container runtime must provide PID limits.

This isn't a behavior when unavailable but an expectation. What's the actual behavior when cgroups v2 PID controller is unavailable?

Author: Addressed in 87b4d69a. Removed cgroups from supervisor requirements because PID limits are driver/runtime-owned. The compute-driver section now explains that sandbox creation fails when the runtime rejects the configured limit and that 0 preserves the runtime default.

> | cgroups v2 PID controller              | Recommended | Linux 4.5 or later  | The compute driver or container runtime must provide PID limits.               |

Reviewer 2: > The compute driver or container runtime must provide PID limits.

This isn't a behavior when unavailable, but rather an expectation. What's the actual behavior when cgroups v2 PID controller is unavailable?

Author: Addressed in 87b4d69a. Removed cgroups from supervisor requirements because PID limits are driver/runtime-owned. The compute-driver section now explains that sandbox creation fails when the runtime rejects the configured limit and that 0 preserves the runtime default.

> | User namespaces                        | Optional    | 5.12    | Stronger Kubernetes host isolation is unavailable.                             |

Reviewer 2: > Stronger Kubernetes host isolation is unavailable.

How does this translate to policy features?

Author: Addressed in 87b4d69a. Moved user namespaces to the Kubernetes section, clarified that OpenShell policy enforcement remains available while hostUsers false UID remapping is the missing defense in depth, and linked the User Namespace Isolation guidance.

> | User namespaces                        | Optional    | Linux 5.12 or later | Stronger Kubernetes host isolation is unavailable.                             |

Reviewer 2: > Stronger Kubernetes host isolation is unavailable. 

This probably could use some expansion. What specific host isolation is unavailable? Maybe we can link to somewhere in the docs that describes what user namespace features OpenShell takes advantage of when it's available, and how that relates to specific OpenShell features.

Author: Addressed in 87b4d69a. Moved user namespaces to the Kubernetes section, clarified that OpenShell policy enforcement remains available while hostUsers false UID remapping is the missing defense in depth, and linked the User Namespace Isolation guidance.
